doc: matter: add configuring guide (#6027)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_matter_configuring_protocol.rst

.. _ug_matter_configuring_protocol:

> Configuring Matter in |NCS|

Reviewer: Alternative to consider: "Configuring |NCS| application for Matter"

Author: I'll stick to the original, because your proposal is way longer although it is more accurate.

###########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This page describes what is needed to start working with Matter in the |NCS|.

.. _ug_matter_configuring_requirements:

Required components for Matter network
**************************************

The Matter network requires the following components to properly operate:

* Matter controller - configured either on PC or mobile

> * Thread Border Router - required by the Matter controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Thread Border Router - configured either on PC or Raspberry Pi
```
It's required not only by the controller. It's required by all Thread nodes, so maybe it's not worth mentioning that.

Reviewer: @greg-fer You liked the suggestion, but didn't commit it. Intentionally? :)

Author: I edited the wrong line :/

Author: @Damian-Nordic , please recheck. Pushed a commit fixing this.

For information about how to configure these components, read :ref:`ug_matter_configuring`.

.. _ug_matter_configuring_mandatory:

Mandatory configuration
***********************

To use the Matter protocol, enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP` Kconfig option.
Setting this option enables the Matter protocol stack and other associated Kconfig options, including :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP_ENABLE_DNSSD_SRP` that is required for the discovery of the Matter device using DNS-SD.

> After that, you have to set the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP_PROJECT_CONFIG` Kconfig options and define the path to the configuration file that specifies Vendor ID, Product ID, and other project-specific Matter settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, you can set the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP_PROJECT_CONFIG` Kconfig option and define the path to the configuration file that specifies Vendor ID, Product ID, and other project-specific Matter settings.
```
As this is optional (but recommended). In theory one can use Matter default settings.

For instructions about how to set Kconfig options, see :ref:`configure_application`.

.. _ug_matter_configuring_optional:

Optional configuration
**********************

After enabling the Matter protocol and defining the path to the Matter configuration file, you can enable additional options in Kconfig.

OpenThread configuration
========================

Enabling :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP` automatically enables the following options related to OpenThread:

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_ECDSA` and :kconfig:`OPENTHREAD_SRP_CLIENT` - enabled through :kconfig:`CHIP_ENABLE_DNSSD_SRP`
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_DNS_CLIENT` - enabled through :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP_ENABLE_DNS_CLIENT`

Additionally, you can enable the support for Thread :ref:`Sleepy End Device <thread_ot_device_types>` in Matter by using the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP_ENABLE_SLEEPY_END_DEVICE_SUPPORT` Kconfig option.

> This option sets :kconfig:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_MTD_SED` and :kconfig:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_MTD` Kconfig options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option sets :kconfig:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_MTD_SED` Kconfig option.
```
`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_MTD` is not implied, it's required for the CONFIG_CHIP_ENABLE_SLEEPY_END_DEVICE_SUPPORT option to be available.

For more information about configuring OpenThread in the |NCS|, see :ref:`ug_thread_configuring`.

Commissioning with NFC
======================

You can configure the Matter protocol to use NFC tag for :doc:`commissioning <matter:nrfconnect_android_commissioning>`, instead of the default QR code.

To enable NFC for commissioning and share the onboarding payload in an NFC tag, set the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP_NFC_COMMISSIONING` Kconfig option.

Logging configuration
=====================

Logging is handled with the :kconfig:`CONFIG_LOG` option.
This option enables logging for both the stack and Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:logging_api` API.

Matter shell commands
=====================

You can enable the Matter shell library using the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CHIP_LIB_SHELL` Kconfig option.
This option lets you use the Matter shell commands with :ref:`matter_samples`.

> See :doc:`matter:nrfconnect_android_commissioning` in the Matter documentation for the list of available Matter shell commands.

Reviewer: Wrong link. You probably meant nrfconnect_examples_cli guide.
